The model's job is to deduce through a set of images of a moving game, which faux-oppositional agent is behaving according to different rules in an attempt to accomplish a goal.

===SCENARIO===

The artificial-life algorithm "boids" developed by Craig Reynolds in 1986 is a framework similar to John Conway's game of life, where initial conditions are set and a scene unfolds using a predefined set of rules.

A game of boids includes a 2-dimensional traversable area, along with a finite number of birdoids ("boids") which follow rules designed to mimic the flight patterns of flocking birds. At any time T, each boid has 3 properties: x-location, y-location, and movement direction. At time T+1, each boid will update their location by traveling a fixed distance in their current direction. Each boid's direction at time T+1 may either angle slightly to the left, continue straight, or angle slightly to the right relative to their direction at time T, and is chosen to maximize a simple utility function.

This function generally aims to optimize 4 main parameters: remaining within the bounded area, avoiding collision with other boids, staying toward the center of the flock, and traveling in the same direction as nearby boids.

This particular implementation of boids has two main features that distinguish it from a basic boids simulation. Score and psychic boid ("psyboid") capable of time travel.

Some portion of the play area will be designated as a scoring area. At each simulated interval, a score counter will increase according to how many boids are in the scoring area.

There is one psyboid that has the ability to override its basic movement algorithm once every [COOLDOWN] time intervals. During that time, it will choose one turning direction (left, straight, right) and commit to turning in that direction for [MIN_OVERRIDE] to [MAX_OVERRIDE] intervals. Several possible such interventions will be simulated, and the one that leads to the highest score by the end of [COOLDOWN]+[SIMULATION_THRESHOLD] intervals from the end of the last such intervention will become the canonical timeline, and the basis upon which further gameplay is simulated. While not as sophisticated as a true adversarial network, this will provide data that simulates an agent trying to influence a group to a preferred outcome while minimizing the time spent acting abnormally.

===PROMPT===

Attached you will code to run a simulation similar to Craig Reynold's boids as detailed in his 1987 paper "Flocks, herds and schools: A distributed behavioral model". The code contains everything required to understand and replicate default boid movement.

In several subfolders there are series of images from games of boids. Each subfolder corresponds a single instance of boids where each boid is drawn with a fixed color throughout. In each instance, all but one boid is following the default movement rules. The remaining boid (the "psyboid") usually follows those rule, but will occasionally deviate in ways designed to maximize the average number of boids including itself that are within the textured scoring zone at any point in time.

Your job is to evaluate these images and identify the correctly identify the color of the psyboid in each folder. The task will be considered successful only if every single psyboid is identified correctly.

Some of these identifications may be easy. Some may be hard. But all of them should be possible to deduce with relatively certainty given a sufficient level of insight and persistence. If you are confident with some evaluations and uncertain others, it may be necessary to build additional tools and strategies. Visit the attached recommendations folder for potentially useful leads.

When done, create a .json file named "culprits.json" with a single object mapping the UUID for each game to the color of the psyboid in uppercase.

===CONTEXT REQUIREMENTS===

One .zip file containing all of the following:
>"RESOURCES" folder
>>.txt file with "Flocks, herds and schools: A distributed behavioral model"
>>boids.py : file that runs simulations of the boids game
>>boid.py : file defining the behavior of a default boid
>"GAME_[UUID]" folder x25
>>Screencap_[UUID].jpg
>>Screencap_[UUID].jpg
>>colors.txt : file containing the color names for this game of boids
>>notes.txt : possible additional information, such as sequencing or timing of screencaps
>"RECOMMENDATIONS" folder
>>tools.txt : Suggestions for intermediate calculations, and possible ways to break the problem into manageable subtasks
>>spacial_reasoning.txt Socratic questions aimed to highlight relevant spacial reasoning considerations

===TASK EXPLANATION===

This task is a fairly close analogue to work being done by intelligence services and police services. It combines game theory, pattern recognition, and the reconstruction of both events and party motivations.

The model starts with relatively sparse images of a series of events, as well as the information it would take to reconstruct typical behavior. From that it needs to identify outlier individuals that have goals to accomplish but do not want to be identified.

There are angles from which to approach the problem, and having solid leads into several of them will be required for success.

One approach is to turn the snapshots into a database of annotated features, and run statistical analysis to find the odd one out. This would be particularly useful for a game with many snapshots and an obvious psyboid. Noting which features are auto-correlated in one game would hint at features that act as potential giveaways in others.

Given the finite amount of data available, that might not be enough. The model might greatly benefit from producing its own artificial data to simulate normal gameplay. This could give much better information about what's normal, and make abnormal arrangements of boids stand out even more.

In a more direct approach, a model could do pairwise comparison of images to see if two were taken in short succession. If that were the case, it could confirm whether each boid was rotating in the expected direction and possibly catch the psyboid red-handed.

For some play areas, it might be fruitful to look at the overall geometry and that of the score area and determine which moments are critical tipping points for maximizing score. Making these deductions, then seeing a boid in a highly influential position even just once or twice might be extremely informative.

A particularly clever model is likely to converge on two strategies:
* The cleanest and most effective source of data, if the model were creative enough to come up with it, would be to run forward simulations from each of the images and evaluating how the deletion of one boid would affect the overall score. Boids whose deletion regularly has a strongly negative impact are very likely to be the psyboid.
* The most orthogonal secondary source of data to pair with that is a backwards-looking estimate of whether a boid's current position and orientation is plausible with the default turning rules. Since the turning rules are time symmetric, it's possible to use them to go backwards as well as forwards. This may reveal that a boid would have come from a very unusual position, or even out of bounds, to arrive at its current location had it been following normal turning rules.